# Data+ Rubenstein Library Card Catalog

### This repository contains the code and files used and created by the Duke University Data+ 2021 Rubenstein Library Card Catalog Team. Working with the digitized cards from the David M. Rubenstein Rare Book and Manuscript Library's physical card catalogs, our team is exploring the files as a way to further the library's initiative of finding and describing historically marginalized voices in their collections. We have uploaded the cards to Duke's [Internet Archive Page](https://archive.org/details/rubensteinmanuscriptcatalog) for easy viewing for librarians and patrons alike.

### We also created a structured dataset, sorted by collection of items within the catalog, named main_file_dataset.csv. Using natural language processing and some manual editing, we pulled out important metadata such as author, location, and date written and added links in the dataset to the corresponding card in the Internet Archives site. This dataset will be uploaded to the Duke Research Data Repository to allow access for those who wish to dig deeper into the files.

### With the dataset we created, we are analysing *what* and *who* is present in these cards. We explored the demographics of the authors and items cataloged, as well as analysed how the information within the cards relates to the history of Duke University. We completed spatial frequency mapping on the level of the United States and of North Carolina counties, in addition to visualizing the international countries present in the cards. There is copious rich information present in the files, and our Data+ project is just the tip of the iceberg. We hope that future research teams will continue to dissect the card files and continue to gain insights into Duke's history.
